nvim/.config/nvim/docs/Tasks.md, before:

# Tasks

<!--toc:start-->
- [Tasks](#tasks)
  - [Configure Neo-tree](#configure-neo-tree)
  - [Configure Neovim](#configure-neovim)
  - [Replace Bufferline with Barbar](#replace-bufferline-with-barbar)
  - [Configure Snacks](#configure-snacks)
  - [Configure LSP](#configure-lsp)
<!--toc:end-->

## Configure Neo-tree

- [ ] add shortcut for neo-tree to toggle fallow buffer

## Configure Neovim

- [ ] open checkhealth in a split window instead of a new nvim tab

## Replace Bufferline with Barbar

- [x] replace bufferline with barbar
  - [x] ~disable lazyvim mappings for buffer switching~
  - [x] change the size of the tab name
  - [x] add keymaps for
    - [x] close buffers to the left
    - [x] close buffers to the right
    - [x] close others
  - [x] integrate the look and feel of the plugin
    - [x] ~(optional) investigate if neovim tabs can be made to look like bufferline~
    - [x] change the Project Explorer fg and bg colors

## Configure Snacks

- [x] enable snacks bigfile and configure it
- [x] enable snacks quickfile and configure it
- [x] enable snacks input
  - [x] make neo-tree use normal mode on esc key

## Configure LSP

- [x] disable custom config for ruff rules

Commit message:

docs(nvim): add task for side panel

nvim/.config/nvim/docs/Tasks.md, after:

# Tasks

<!--toc:start-->

- [Tasks](#tasks)
  - [Configure Neo-tree](#configure-neo-tree)
  - [Configure Neovim](#configure-neovim)
  - [Replace Bufferline with Barbar](#replace-bufferline-with-barbar)
  - [Configure Snacks](#configure-snacks)
  - [Configure LSP](#configure-lsp)
  <!--toc:end-->

## Configure Neo-tree

- [ ] add shortcut for neo-tree to toggle fallow buffer

## Configure Neovim

- [ ] open checkhealth in a split window instead of a new nvim tab
- [ ] add highlight for side panels or for floating window

## Replace Bufferline with Barbar

- [x] replace bufferline with barbar
  - [x] ~disable lazyvim mappings for buffer switching~
  - [x] change the size of the tab name
  - [x] add keymaps for
    - [x] close buffers to the left
    - [x] close buffers to the right
    - [x] close others
  - [x] integrate the look and feel of the plugin
    - [x] ~(optional) investigate if neovim tabs can be made to look like bufferline~
    - [x] change the Project Explorer fg and bg colors

## Configure Snacks

- [x] enable snacks bigfile and configure it
- [x] enable snacks quickfile and configure it
- [x] enable snacks input
  - [x] make neo-tree use normal mode on esc key

## Configure LSP

- [x] disable custom config for ruff rules
